---
title: RPL management statistics in COMI format
abbrev: rpl-comi
docname: draft-richardson-roll-rpl-comi-00

# stand_alone: true

ipr: trust200902
area: Internet
wg: 6tisch Working Group
kw: Internet-Draft
cat: info

coding: us-ascii
pi:    # can use array (if all yes) or hash here
  toc: yes
  sortrefs:   # defaults to yes
  symrefs: yes

author:


- ins: M. Richardson
  name: Michael Richardson
  org: Sandelman Software Works
  email: mcr+ietf@sandelman.ca

-- - ins: P. van der Stok
--  name: Peter van der Stok
--  org: vanderstok consultancy
--  email: consultancy@vanderstok.org

normative:
  RFC2119:
  RFC6550:
  I-D.ietf-core-yang-cbor:
  I-D.ietf-core-sid:
  I-D.ietf-core-object-security:

informative:
  I-D.ietf-netmod-yang-tree-diagrams:

--- abstract

This document defines a YANG model for retrieving RPL statistics from
a 6LR or 6LBR using COMI.  An OSCORE context is assumed to protect
the statistics.   The YANG model is translated to SIDs and is extensible.

--- middle

# Introduction

Determining the structure of a production RPL DODAG has so far involved proprietary
data collection mechanisms.  This has hampered to development of common visualization
tools, which has resulted in researchers investigating the behaviour of only a
small number of implementations, often in unrealistic simulation environments.

MORE.

# Terminology          {#Terminology}

The following terms are defined in ....

# Requirements Language {#rfc2119}

In this document, the key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED",
"SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY",
and "OPTIONAL" are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14, RFC 2119
{{RFC2119}} and indicate requirement levels for compliant STuPiD
implementations.

# YANG MODEL for RPL statistics

((EDNOTE: it is unclear if there is further IANA work))

## Voucher Request artifact

### Tree Diagram

<figure>
INSERT_TEXT_FROM_FILE rpl-comi-tree.txt END
</figure>

### SID values

<figure>
INSERT_TEXT_FROM_FILE rpl-comi-sid.txt END
</figure>

### YANG Module

Statistics:

<figure>
INSERT_TEXT_FROM_FILE rpl-comi@DATE.yang END
</figure>

# IANA Considerations

## The YANG Module Names Registry

This document registers a YANG modules in the YANG Module Names
registry [RFC6020].  Following the format defined in [RFC6020], the
the following registration is requested:

      name:         ietf-roll-rpl-statistics
      namespace:    urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-roll-rpl-statistics
      reference:    RFC XXXX

## The SID registry

The SID range 1001200 was allocated by comi.space to the
IETF-ROLL-RPL-STATISTICS yang module.

# Acknowledgements

We are very grateful to X and Y and Z.

# Changelog

